### What are the 4 types of prometheus metrics?

    Which of these is not a valid metric?
    
    Metric names cannot start with a number.		
    404_error_count
    
    A web app is being built that allows users to upload pictures, management would like to be able to track the size of uploaded pictures and report back the number of photos that were less than 10Mb, 50Mb, 100MB, 500MB, and 1Gb. What metric would be best for this?
    
    Histograms should be used to calculate how long or how big something is and allows you to group observations into configurable bucket sizes		
    histogram
    
    What metric should be used to report the current memory utilization?
    
    Since memory utilization can go up and down, we want to use a gauge metric instead of a counter.		
    gauge
    
    What are the 4 types of prometheus metrics?
    
    counter, gauge, histogram, summary
    
    How many labels does the following time series have? http_errors_total{instance=“1.1.1.1:80”, job=“api”, code=“400”, endpoint="/user", method=“post”} 55234
    
    The 5 labels are instance, job, code, endpoint, method		
    5
    
    For the metric http_requests_total{path=”/auth”, instance=”node1”, job=”api”} 7782 ; What is the metric name?
    
    http_requests_total
    
    What are the two labels every metric is assigned by default?
    
    instance, job
    
    What are the two attributes provided by a metric?
    
    HELP - Description of what the metric is TYPE - Specific type of prometheus metric(counter, gauge, histogram, summary)		
    Help, Type
    
    What metric should be used to report the amount of time a process has been running?
    
    For this a counter metric would be used as it would count the number of seconds a process has been running for. The uptime of a process can never go down, so a gauge metric shouldn’t be used.		
    counter
    
    How many total unique time series are there in this output?
    
    Each unique combination of metrics & labels is a separate time series. There are 9 separate instances of that		
    9
    
