ETCD – Commands (Optional)
(Optional) Additional information about ETCDCTL UtilityETCDCTL is the CLI tool used to interact with ETCD.ETCDCTL can interact with ETCD Server using 2 API versions – Version 2 and Version 3.  By default it’s set to use Version 2. Each version has different sets of commands.

For example, ETCDCTL version 2 supports the following commands:

    etcdctl backup
    etcdctl cluster-health
    etcdctl mk
    etcdctl mkdir
    etcdctl set

Whereas the commands are different in version 3
    
    etcdctl snapshot save
    etcdctl endpoint health
    etcdctl get
    etcdctl put

To set the right version of API set the environment variable ETCDCTL_API command

export ETCDCTL_API=3

When the API version is not set, it is assumed to be set to version 2. And version 3 commands listed above don’t work. When API version is set to version 3, version 2 commands listed above don’t work.

Apart from that, you must also specify the path to certificate files so that ETCDCTL can authenticate to the ETCD API Server. The certificate files are available in the etcd-master at the following path. We discuss more about certificates in the security section of this course. So don’t worry if this looks complex:

    --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt
    --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt
    --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key

So for the commands, I showed in the previous video to work you must specify the ETCDCTL API version and path to certificate files. Below is the final form:

    kubectl exec etcd-controlplane -n kube-system -- sh -c "ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl get / --prefix --keys-only --limit=10 --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt --key /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key"



    Sure, let's break down Kubernetes and etcd in a way that's easy to understand for a 15-year-old.

1. **Kubernetes:**
   Imagine you have a bunch of toy robots, and you want them to work together to build something awesome. But how do you make sure they're all doing the right thing at the right time? That's where Kubernetes comes in!

   - **Task Manager:** Think of Kubernetes as the boss that tells each robot what job to do and when to do it. It makes sure they're all working together smoothly.

   - **Containers:** Now, each robot has its own little toolbox (container). Inside the toolbox, there's everything the robot needs to do its job. Kubernetes helps these containers communicate and work as a team.

   - **Scalability:** If you get more toy robots or need to build something bigger, Kubernetes can easily manage that. It's like having a smart organizer for your growing team of robots.

2. **etcd:**
   Now, imagine you have a magical notebook where you write down all the important rules and information for your robot team. This magical notebook is like etcd.

   - **Memory Book:** etcd is like the brain of Kubernetes. It remembers things like which robot is doing what job, what tools they have, and any special instructions.

   - **Consistency:** Just like a good team needs everyone to follow the same rules, etcd makes sure all the robots (containers) are on the same page. If one robot knows something, etcd makes sure all the others know it too.

   - **Reliability:** If the boss (Kubernetes) needs to know who's doing what, it can always check with etcd. It's like a reliable source of information that helps everything run smoothly.

So, in simple terms, Kubernetes is like the manager making sure all the toy robots work together, and etcd is like the smart notebook helping the manager remember and organize everything about the robots and their tasks. They team up to create a powerful and efficient system for building cool things!
