
Your score
70%
Pass Percentage - 66%
Q. 1

Task
Deploy a pod named nginx-pod using the nginx:alpine image.

Once done, click on the Next Question button in the top right corner of this panel. You may navigate back and forth freely between all questions. Once done with all questions, click on End Exam. Your work will be validated at the end and score shown. Good Luck!

Q. 2

Task
Deploy a messaging pod using the redis:alpine image with the labels set to tier=msg.

Q. 3

Task
Create a namespace named apx-x9984574.

Q. 4

Task
Get the list of nodes in JSON format and store it in a file at /opt/outputs/nodes-z3444kd9.json.

Q. 5

Task
Create a service messaging-service to expose the messaging application within the cluster on port 6379.

Use imperative commands.

Solution
Run the command: kubectl expose pod messaging --port=6379 --name messaging-service

Details

Service: messaging-service

Port: 6379

Type: ClusterIp

Use the right labels

Q. 6

Task
Create a deployment named hr-web-app using the image kodekloud/webapp-color with 2 replicas.

Q. 7

Task

Solution
Create a pod definition file in the manifests directory. For that use command kubectl run --restart=Never --image=busybox static-busybox --dry-run=client -oyaml --command -- sleep 1000 > /etc/kubernetes/manifests/static-busybox.yaml

Details

Name: static-busybox


Image: busybox

Q. 8

Task
Create a POD in the finance namespace named temp-bus with the image redis:alpine.

Q. 9

Task
A new application orange is deployed. There is something wrong with it. Identify and fix the issue.

Q. 10

Task
Expose the hr-web-app as service hr-web-app-service application on port 30082 on the nodes on the cluster.

The web application listens on port 8080.

Solution
Run the command: kubectl expose deployment hr-web-app --type=NodePort --port=8080 --name=hr-web-app-service --dry-run=client -o yaml > hr-web-app-service.yaml to generate a service definition file.

Now, in generated service definition file add the nodePort field with the given port number under the ports section and create a service.

Details

Name: hr-web-app-service

Type: NodePort


Endpoints: 2

Port: 8080

NodePort: 30082

Q. 11

Task
Use JSON PATH query to retrieve the osImages of all the nodes and store it in a file /opt/outputs/nodes_os_x43kj56.txt.

The osImages are under the nodeInfo section under status of each node.

Q. 12

Task
Create a Persistent Volume with the given specification: -

Volume name: pv-analytics

Storage: 100Mi

Access mode: ReadWriteMany

Host path: /pv/data-analytics



