All the Best!
Congratulations!!!
You are now fully ready to crack the CKA Certification.

Head over to this link to enroll in the Certification Exam. Remember to keep the code – 20KODE – handy to get a 20% discount while registering for the CKA exam with Linux Foundation.

Click here to purchase the CKA EXAM: https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-administrator-cka/

Candidate Handbook: https://www.cncf.io/certification/candidate-handbook

Important Instructions: https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/tc-docs/certification/tips-cka-and-ckad

Below are some of the questions students usually ask.
Q. How much time does it take to get results after the exam?

A. Results will be emailed within 48 hours.

Q. Is this course and mock exams sufficient for the exam?

A. Yes! The course covers all topics required for the exam. You should be good if you practice the practice tests and mock exams enough times and make peace with the Kubernetes documentation pages.

Q. Are the difficulty level of the mock exams similar to the ones in the exam?

A. We have created two new mock exams (1 & 2) with a more difficult level than the ones in the exam and the Ultimate CKA Mock Exam Series to give you more practice and an exam-like environment before you appear in the exam. So please check them out.

Q. Is auto-completion available in the exam environment?

A. Yes.

Q. How do I switch between clusters/environments in the exam environment?

A. The command to switch to the right cluster/context will be given at the top of each question. Make sure you run that always. Even if you think you are on the right cluster/context!
