Task
Take a backup of the etcd cluster and save it to /opt/etcd-backup.db.

Solution
Run the following command to take a backup:

export ETCDCTL_API=3
etcdctl snapshot save --endpoints https://[127.0.0.1]:2379 --cacert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt --cert /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt --key=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key  /opt/etcd-backup.db

Details

Backup Completed

Q. 2

Task
Create a Pod called redis-storage with image: redis:alpine with a Volume of type emptyDir that lasts for the life of the Pod.

Specs on the below.

Q. 3

Task
Create a new pod called super-user-pod with image busybox:1.28. Allow the pod to be able to set system_time.

The container should sleep for 4800 seconds.

Q. 4

Task
A pod definition file is created at /root/CKA/use-pv.yaml. Make use of this manifest file and mount the persistent volume called pv-1. Ensure the pod is running and the PV is bound.

mountPath: /data

persistentVolumeClaim Name: my-pvc

Solution
Add a persistentVolumeClaim definition to pod definition file.

Solution manifest file to create a pvc my-pvc as follows:

---
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: my-pvc
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
       storage: 10Mi

And then, update the pod definition file as follows:

apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  labels:
    run: use-pv
  name: use-pv
spec:
  containers:
  - image: nginx
    name: use-pv
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/data"
      name: mypd
  volumes:
    - name: mypd
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: my-pvc

Finally, create the pod by running:
kubectl create -f /root/CKA/use-pv.yaml

Details



Q. 5

Task
Create a new deployment called nginx-deploy, with image nginx:1.16 and 1 replica. Next upgrade the deployment to version 1.17 using rolling update.

Solution
Explore the --record option while creating the deployment while working with the deployment definition file. Then make use of the kubectl apply command to create or update the deployment.

To create a deployment definition file nginx-deploy:

$ kubectl create deployment nginx-deploy --image=nginx:1.16 --dry-run=client -o yaml > deploy.yaml

To create a resource from definition file and to record:

$ kubectl apply -f deploy.yaml --record

To view the history of deployment nginx-deploy:

$ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx-deploy

To upgrade the image to next given version:

$ kubectl set image deployment/nginx-deploy nginx=nginx:1.17 --record

To view the history of deployment nginx-deploy:

$ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx-deploy

Details




Q. 6

Task
Create a new user called john. Grant him access to the cluster. John should have permission to create, list, get, update and delete pods in the development namespace . The private key exists in the location: /root/CKA/john.key and csr at /root/CKA/john.csr.

Important Note: As of kubernetes 1.19, the CertificateSigningRequest object expects a signerName.

Please refer the documentation to see an example. The documentation tab is available at the top right of terminal.

Solution
Solution manifest file to create a CSR as follows:

---
apiVersion: certificates.k8s.io/v1
kind: CertificateSigningRequest
metadata:
  name: john-developer
spec:
  signerName: kubernetes.io/kube-apiserver-client
  request: 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
  usages:
  - digital signature
  - key encipherment
  - client auth

To approve this certificate, run: kubectl certificate approve john-developer

Next, create a role developer and rolebinding developer-role-binding, run the command:

$ kubectl create role developer --resource=pods --verb=create,list,get,update,delete --namespace=development

$ kubectl create rolebinding developer-role-binding --role=developer --user=john --namespace=development

To verify the permission from kubectl utility tool:

$ kubectl auth can-i update pods --as=john --namespace=development

Details



Q. 7

Task
Create a nginx pod called nginx-resolver using image nginx, expose it internally with a service called nginx-resolver-service. Test that you are able to look up the service and pod names from within the cluster. Use the image: busybox:1.28 for dns lookup. Record results in /root/CKA/nginx.svc and /root/CKA/nginx.pod

Solution
Use the command kubectl run and create a nginx pod and busybox pod. Resolve it, nginx service and its pod name from busybox pod.

To create a pod nginx-resolver and expose it internally:

kubectl run nginx-resolver --image=nginx
kubectl expose pod nginx-resolver --name=nginx-resolver-service --port=80 --target-port=80 --type=ClusterIP

To create a pod test-nslookup. Test that you are able to look up the service and pod names from within the cluster:

kubectl run test-nslookup --image=busybox:1.28 --rm -it --restart=Never -- nslookup nginx-resolver-service
kubectl run test-nslookup --image=busybox:1.28 --rm -it --restart=Never -- nslookup nginx-resolver-service > /root/CKA/nginx.svc

Get the IP of the nginx-resolver pod and replace the dots(.) with hyphon(-) which will be used below.

kubectl get pod nginx-resolver -o wide
kubectl run test-nslookup --image=busybox:1.28 --rm -it --restart=Never -- nslookup <P-O-D-I-P.default.pod> > /root/CKA/nginx.pod

Details

Pod: nginx-resolver created


Service DNS Resolution recorded correctly


Pod DNS resolution recorded correctly

Q. 8

Task
Create a static pod on node01 called nginx-critical with image nginx and make sure that it is recreated/restarted automatically in case of a failure.

Use /etc/kubernetes/manifests as the Static Pod path for example.

Solution
To create a static pod called nginx-critical by using below command:

kubectl run nginx-critical --image=nginx --dry-run=client -o yaml > static.yaml

Copy the contents of this file or use scp command to transfer this file from controlplane to node01 node.

root@controlplane:~# scp static.yaml node01:/root/

To know the IP Address of the node01 node:

root@controlplane:~# kubectl get nodes -o wide

# Perform SSH
root@controlplane:~# ssh node01
OR
root@controlplane:~# ssh <IP of node01>

On node01 node:

Check if static pod directory is present which is /etc/kubernetes/manifests, if it's not present then create it.

root@node01:~# mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/manifests

Add that complete path to the staticPodPath field in the kubelet config.yaml file.

root@node01:~# vi /var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml

now, move/copy the static.yaml to path /etc/kubernetes/manifests/.

root@node01:~# cp /root/static.yaml /etc/kubernetes/manifests/

Go back to the controlplane node and check the status of static pod:

root@node01:~# exit
logout
root@controlplane:~# kubectl get pods 

Details

static pod configured under /etc/kubernetes/manifests ?


Pod nginx-critical-node01 is up and running
